Currently I'm on the list of template tags available on WordPress all template tags are stored in nine
files and those list of files can be found here.
You basically find them inside the WP dash includes directory.
We're going to work our way down this list to start things off.
We'll explore the general tags as you may expect General tags are tags that don't necessarily fit in
any other category that are more general purpose and so you'll find a lot of functions for various scenarios
the kind of functions you can expect to find are includes log and functions blog info archive calendar
etc..
The first set of tanks are include tags.
These are functions that take care of loading a template file inside another template file.
We've actually explored every single one of these functions in the past two sections so you already
know what to expect out of these before we move forward.
I want to highlight that the comments template function isn't listed here despite being a general tag
in the resource section of this lecture.
I provide a link to this function.
If you were to scroll down to the source section you'll see that the function is defined inside the
comment dash template dot P HP file.
Just be aware that some tags aren't defined in the same files as the other tags.
Despite it not being defined in those files this is a template tag.
The next set of template tags are log and tags.
We haven't gone over authentication in this course but we will soon.
This is just a general overview.
The first function is the WP log in out function that will output a link to the log in or long out pages
depending on if the user is authenticated.
The next two functions will provide the URL to the log in or log out or else.
This is just in case you don't want to use the function above and have more control over your links.
Then we have the log in form function which will just output a simple log in form followed by the lost
password you URL and register your functions which will output links to those pages.
Lastly we have the is user logged in function which will return true or false if the user is logged
in let's play around with some of these tanks.
Right now I'm inside the experimental template inside the content area.
I'm going to echo out the value returned by the function WP logging you URL.
Let's go to our browser and refresh the page.
As expected we get the URL to the log page.
Something worth noting is that this function doesn't check if we're logged in or not.
Right now I'm logged in so I shouldn't be able to view this you are out.
If we want to let WordPress handle this and we can go back to the editor and change the function to
WP log in out this function doesn't need to be echoed out so we can remove the echo statement Save your
changes and refresh the page.
This function will take care of outputting the link while also surrounding it with HDMI tags.
A lot of this is very straightforward stuff
the next function is the blog info function.
This function will return information about your site.
There are two versions which are the blog info and get blog info functions.
Something worth highlighting is that you can only retrieve one value the value returned depends on what
you pass into the function.
Here are some examples of what you can pass into the function.
You can pass him the same values to both functions.
The only difference is that the blog info function will echo out the value and the get blog info function
will return the value.
Right now I'm on the documentation page for the blog info function.
If you scroll down to be possible values section then you'll find all the values you can get from this
function as you can see we can grab information such as the name you are L character set etc..
There is one thing I want to highlight about this function.
If you scroll up you'll find the change logs section.
This function was introduced in WordPress version zero point seven one.
It's been around for quite some time.
When it was first introduced there weren't a lot of ways to get certain values from the database.
However five major versions later WordPress has introduced a plethora of functions scrolling back down
you'll see that WordPress recommends alternative functions to grab certain values.
For example the you are rail description states the following displays the site address set in settings
general.
This data is retrieved from the home record in the WP underscore options table consider echoing home
your URL function inset.
There is no right or wrong answer here.
It really boils down to preference whenever you use the blog info function.
Always check the documentation for alternative solutions.
The next set of tags are archive tags archive tags are specifically for archive templates like categories
tags and taxonomy.
Apart from that they can also be used outside of the loop which can save you code in space.
Despite their appearance archive templates are one of the most complicated pieces of pages WordPress
has.
This is because you can archive a post by category date tag taxonomy etc..
There's just so much information attached to a post because of this archive tags are just as weird and
complex I'm back inside the experimental template.
I'm going to comment out any code we have here.
Then I'm going to call the function single post title as you would expect this will output the title
of the current post on top of that.
You'll notice we're not inside a loop.
Let's refresh the page and see what we get.
The title of the post now appears here.
That's great.
I won't be able to show you all the archive template tags but I do want to show you one thing I'm going
to open the category template for a moment inside the page titled section.
You'll find that we're using the template tags the archive title and the archive description.
WordPress provides another function for displaying the category title which is single cat title
once you have that set go back to your browser and view a category page a small change has occurred.
The text category does not appear before the name of the category.
Other than that everything else is the same.
So at this point you may be thinking what's the point.
What makes one function better than the other.
Well let's peek at the documentation for a second and the resource section of this lecture.
I provide a link to the the archive title function.
If you scroll down to the source code section then you'll see that this function calls the get the archive
title function.
Before we check out this function I want you to take note of the change long section which says this
was introduced in version four point one of WordPress.
This is important to note and you'll see why in a moment scrolling down further you'll find a section
called related uses which provides information about the functions used by this function.
I'm going to click on the link for the get the archive title function this time.
If you look at the source code you'll see that there is way more going on.
This function will check if the current page is a category tag and date archive.
Taking a closer look.
The single cat title function is called when the page is a category archive.
That's very strange but let's keep going down the rabbit hole to understand what's going on.
Scrolling down to the related uses section there should be a link for this function.
Click on it.
Two things worth noting on this page.
First up is the function.
If you call this function then you'll see that it's just passing off the data onto another function
called single term title.
That's strange because that's also a template tag listed on the general template tags file.
Anyway let's go to the related uses section once more and click the link to this function.
Now this is the function that actually takes care of grabbing the data we want.
WordPress goes through a lot of hurdles just to display a simple title and that's what I want to highlight.
On one hand archives are very broad and therefore they're complex.
A lot of checks have to be performed in order to grab the correct piece of information.
On the other hand this also shows that WordPress is not as organized as one may think.
WordPress receives criticism for gluing code together.
That's partially true.
The reason we have the archive title function is because developers still had to add this logic to their
templates.
This made the code look sloppy and unorganized.
That's why the archive title function was introduced recently.
Despite all these functions being around for a while.
Luckily the team behind WordPress is working really hard to clean things up.
It's starting to become clear which functions should be used.
This is why we use the archive title function.
It's because it takes care of checking for everything rather than us doing all the work.
That was a lot to dig through but hopefully you understand what's going on behind the scenes.
If you were to go back to the list of template tags and clicked on the single tag title function you'll
see that this function does the exact same thing as a single cat title.
In my opinion it's better to use the archive title function so you don't have to memorize various functions.
I'm gonna go back to my catagory template and reverse the changes.
The next set of template tags are the calendar tags calendar tags aren't used much so I won't be diving
too much into them.
The most commonly used template tag is the get calendar function which will output a calendar in a table
format.
Lastly we have these other tags which don't necessarily belong to a specific category.
None of these are worth going over but you're more than free to check them out in the documentation.
Strangely enough the WP NQ script function is also listed as a template tag.
You already know what this function does so no need to recap on this.
All right.
That does it for the general tags.
I highly recommend you explore these tags once you finish the course.